Add Password Reset for Administrators Guide (#7059)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/system-administration/admin-password-reset-instructions.adoc

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Reset the Jenkins administrator password

As a system administrator, you can reset the Jenkins admin password.
In case you have forgotten or lost the password, this page provides instructions on how you can reset the admin password.

video::_VhOMyWDIcY[youtube, width=640, height=360]
== Reset the administrator password

1. Log in to your Jenkins controller.

> 2. Stop the Jenkins process. You may use this command: `systemctl stop jenkins`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Stop the Jenkins process.
You may use this command: `systemctl stop jenkins`.
```
suggestion to make every sentence its own line

3. Edit the Jenkins configuration file (`config.xml`) inside your `jenkins/` or `$JENKINS_HOME` directory.
4. Look for **useSecurity** and change it from *true* to *false* manually.
5. Save your file and close it.

> 6. Restart the Jenkins service to apply your changes. You may use this command: `systemctl start jenkins`. After restarting Jenkins, navigate to your controller and sign in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Restart the Jenkins service to apply your changes.
You may use this command: `systemctl start jenkins`.
After restarting Jenkins, navigate to your controller and sign in.
```
suggestion to make every sentence its own line

> 7. On the dashboard, select  *Manage Jenkins* in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. On the dashboard, select *Manage Jenkins* in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
```
removing extra space

8. On the *Manage Jenkins* page, under the *Security* section, select *Configure Global Security*.

> 9. Under *Security Realm*, select *Jenkins' own user database* from the dropdown menu. Ensure the option *Allow users to sign up* is unchecked. Click save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Under *Security Realm*, select *Jenkins' own user database* from the dropdown menu.
Ensure the option *Allow users to sign up* is unchecked and save your changes.
```
Suggestion to adjust wording and give each sentence its own line

This redirects you to the Manage Jenkins page.

> 10. In **Manage Jenkins** page, click on **People**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. On the **Manage Jenkins** page, select **Users**.
```
Suggestion to adjust sentence structure and syntax, People is now "Users"

> 11. You will see a People screen showing your username IDs. Click on the user ID that you want to change the password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. You will see a list showing User IDs.
Select the User ID that you want to change the password for.
```
suggestion to adjust syntax and provide each sentence its own line

> 12. Click on Configure. Locate the *Password* section to change your password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. Select Configure using the gear icon or the dropdown menu from the User ID.
Locate the *Password* section to change your password.
```
suggestion to be more precise with instruction, provide each sentence its own line

> After changing the password, you will be able to log into your Jenkins instance again using the same username but the new password that you have just set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After changing the password, you will be able to log into your Jenkins instance again using the same username and the new password that you have just set.
```
Suggestion to adjust syntax

> NOTE: Please ensure not to leave the Jenkins controller insecure. So, please re-enable the security by following these steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Please ensure not to leave the Jenkins controller insecure.
So, please re-enable the security by following these steps.
```
suggestion to give each sentence its own line

== Re-enable the Security

1. Log in as your admin account.
2. On the dashboard, select *Manage Jenkins* in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
3. On the *Manage Jenkins* page, under the *Security* section, select *Configure Global Security*.

> 4. Set the *Authorization* to *Logged-in users can do anything*. Uncheck the option *Allow anonymous read access*. Click *Save*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Set the *Authorization* to *Logged-in users can do anything*.
Uncheck the option *Allow anonymous read access*.
Select *Save*.
```
suggestion to provide each sentence its own line

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Reset the Jenkins administrator password

As a system administrator, you can reset the Jenkins admin password.
In case you have forgotten or lost the password, this page provides instructions on how you can reset the admin password.

> video::_VhOMyWDIcY[youtube, width=640, height=360]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
video::_VhOMyWDIcY[youtube, width=640, height=360]

```
adding line break between video and header

5. Save your file and close it.
6. Restart the Jenkins service to apply your changes.
You may use this command: `systemctl start jenkins`.
After restarting Jenkins, navigate to your controller and sign in.
7. On the dashboard, select *Manage Jenkins* in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
8. On the *Manage Jenkins* page, under the *Security* section, select *Configure Global Security*.
9. Under *Security Realm*, select *Jenkins' own user database* from the dropdown menu.
Ensure the option *Allow users to sign up* is unchecked and save your changes.
This redirects you to the Manage Jenkins page.
10. On the **Manage Jenkins** page, select **Users**.
11. You will see a list showing User IDs.
Select the User ID that you want to change the password for.
12. Select Configure using the gear icon or the dropdown menu from the User ID.
Locate the *Password* section to change your password.

After changing the password, you will be able to log into your Jenkins instance again using the same username and the new password that you have just set.

NOTE: Please ensure not to leave the Jenkins controller insecure.
So, please re-enable the security by following these steps.

> == Re-enable the Security

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Enable security
```
